---
layout: post
title:  "Fixed Mindset vs. Growth Mindset"
date: 2016-02-04 16:08:24
categories: blog post
keywords: "welcome"
categories:
- welcome
tags:
- welcome
- hello-world
---
I think Dweck’s work, while not mind-blowingly new, is really important for a lot of people—including myself—to hear. It is easy to fall back in the habit of saying “I’m bad at math,” when I’m frustrated, but seeing the actual statistical, scientific conclusions of how that is detrimental is what will actually make me stop. But, to a point, her research is also a bit of a fixed mindset.
 
For example, in regards to math I have a complicated mindset of both fixed and growth. I love math when I understand something immediately. But I love math even more when I work to understand a difficult concept, even though I feel some sort of resentment towards it when I’m trying to figure it out. I put a lot of effort into math, but I recognize that math is not as intuitive for me as other people. That doesn’t mean I won’t work hard at it, but I do believe in some innate predispositions to certain areas.
 
I am certain that in an ideal world we would all love our jobs. I also know that’s not the case. But if given the opportunity to pick any job in the world, it should be what feels natural to you. That’s not to eliminate struggle. I think you should pick the kind of struggle you enjoy, what feels natural for you. For example, someone might love the struggle of coding but not the struggle of exercise. That person should definitely become a coder and not a pilates instructor. When I was little, sitting down with a book of logic puzzles for hours felt natural to me, and playing with blocks did not (this is still the case). I love the struggle of puzzles, figuring out strategies.
 
But Dweck’s research is still important for the mindset aspect, even if we can’t take every bit of it to its fullest application. I firmly believe in her idea to reward kids for effort, strategy, and progress. That’s what builds resilience, which you need no matter how much natural ability you have in a certain field.
 
https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve/transcript?language=en
https://www.brainpickings.org/index.php/2014/01/29/carol-dweck-mindset/
http://akaptur.com/blog/2015/10/10/effective-learning-strategies-for-programmers/ 