---
layout: post
title: "Arrays vs. Hashes"
date: 2016-02-18 16:42:24
comments: true
description: "The quick, brown fox jumps over a lazy dog"
keywords: ""
categories:
- welcome
tags:
- welcome
---
When to use arrays vs. hashes

Arrays and hashes are two similar but different classes in Ruby. Arrays are lists, and hashes are dictionaries. In order to return a value in an array, you call for the it using its order in the array. In order to return a value in a hash, you call for it using its key, which can be any object. If you access a key that doesn’t exist, the hash will return “nil” as its value. Hashes would be important to use when information is in pairs—“key-value pairs” is the term that’s often used. They are arrays that associate each value with another. Hashes can sometimes be used as a simpler alternative to creating custom classes. Arrays, on the other hand, are more flexible.

You can nest each inside the other. In class, we used arrays nested inside a hash. You could also do the reverse, accessing hashes nested inside arrays. 

Arrays are useful for one variable. Here are some examples of everyday situations where arrays would be useful:
-	Ranking the placement of runners in a race
-	The schedule of classes in a day

Hashes are useful when there are two variables. Here are some examples of everyday situations that involve two-variables so that coding using a hash would make more sense:
-	Matching a product ID to its price
-	Matching a name of a family member to their relationship to you
-	Matching a donut to the person who reserved it (in-class)

You could use arrays nested inside a hash to code things like:
-	A closet, with keys being the type of clothing (e.g. shirts, pants) and the associated values being an array of specific items (e.g. white polo shirt, boxy gray t-shirt)
-	A menu, with keys being the type of food and the values being an array of specific dishes in the menu that matches the type of food

You could use hashes nested inside an array to code things like: 
-	Every student in the grade’s lunch order, sectioned by homeroom—the array would consist of hashes called each homeroom advisor’s name, and the hashes would feature each individual student as a key and their lunch order as a value

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6097637/whats-the-difference-between-arrays-and-hashes
https://www.codecademy.com/forum_questions/52a69117282ae3085d000d63
http://www.sitepoint.com/guide-ruby-collections-ii-hashes-sets-ranges/
https://lostechies.com/derickbailey/2011/05/25/sometimes-its-better-to-use-a-ruby-hash-than-create-a-custom-class/
