---
layout: post
title: "Why Ruby?"
date: 2016-03-01 16:41:50
comments: true
description: "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit"
keywords: ""
categories:
- welcome
tags:
- welcome
---
Ruby is often described as a language that takes parts from all different languages. And that was its intention, according to creator Yukihiro Matsumoto. His goal was to make a language that was human, that follows common sense and makes programmers happy. That seems to be a consensus among Ruby users—the language is fun to use, and that it’s “elegant.”

For one, it’s practical. It takes the best of great languages: string processing from Perl, list procession from Lisp, and an object-oriented foundation inspired by Smalltalk among others languages. But the most important feature of Ruby is that reads more like English than any other language, and it’s easier to read and understand than most others, too. For example, the use of “end” often provides visual boundaries to separate code. 

When researching Ruby, you’ll find that people describe it as joyful and elegant, as mentioned before, but also powerful. It is simple and concise but can provide just as much if not more function than Python and PHP. Everything (everything) is an object, which makes Ruby more trim than most. Ruby allows “monkey patching,” or changing how a method works. You can also add to classes, even standard ones. Ruby has struck the right balance between clarity and complexity, offering graceful code that can produce intricate results.

There’s also a vibrant Ruby community that focuses on helping each other. Test-driven development (TDD) is a way that Ruby users can interact and assist, creating an environment that further stimulates creativity. 

Ruby took a few years to catch on initially. Matsumoto (“Matz”) put it on the Internet in 1995, but it was popularized as a result of a book called Programming Ruby by Dave Thomas, which led to the very first (small) Ruby conference in 2001. But even though it’s popular now, it’s not stagnant: Matz wants to keep improving it. He has an idea to make Ruby even more supportive of its users by creating a feature to suggest what you meant to code if there’s an error. 

https://sites.google.com/site/steveyegge2/tour-de-babel
https://www.toptal.com/ruby-on-rails/after-two-decades-of-programming-i-use-rails
https://s3.amazonaws.com/hanselminutes/hanselminutes_0461.pdf
http://astonj.com/tech/whats-special-about-ruby/
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1812225/what-makes-ruby-an-elegant-language
